>> Speaker 1: So we've done a ton
of stuff in this course so far.
We know all about files and folders,
we've downloaded sublime text.
I know you're just itching to go ahead and
start creating a website.
So this video is for Mac people, and
we're gonna start talking about file and
folder conventions.
For a typical website,
there's a seperate video for
UPC people where you can follow
on with the same information.
And so for Mac people, as you know, you
can have all your files in one location,
you don't have to organize anything
by folders if you don't want to.
But it's always a good idea to do that so
you can actually find things later.
And as time has evolved in
the web development industry,
we've come up with some standards for
this type of thing.
And so it's pretty typical to have
the following folder structure for
a simple web design project like
the ones we'll be building.
And so
that folder structure is just like this.
We're gonna have one main folder for
the website which is gonna contain
three folders inside of it.
So the three folders inside will be
called css for CSS files, img for
image files and js for JavaScript files.
And then all of the html that is
associated with the website will go into
that main website folder.
That main website been foldered
can be called whatever you want.
Let's go in ahead and
give that structure they are trying
right now, and so to do that.
>> Speaker 1: Just go in
ahead to your desktop, and
what you can do here is make
sure you're in your finder.
Just click somewhere on the desktop
where there isn't anything, and
then you're gonna go ahead and
make a folder.
There's two ways of doing that,
one way is to simply go File, New Folder.
That works, or you can right-click or
Ctrl-click if you don't happen
to have a two-button mouse, and
that will also give you a menu which
will allow you to make a new folder.
Okay, so for my folder,
I'm going to give this a name,
I'm gonna call this demo-finish.
Inside of demo-finished, go ahead and
double click on it to open it and
this is where we can add
our individual folders.
So I'm going to just go ahead and
right click or Control click here inside.
Go ahead and choose new folder and
I'm gonna call this one css
It's best of you call these
all lowercase letters.
Don't capitalize things, I'll explain why
later, just keep it all lowercase for now.
We're gonna make another
one here called img.
>> Speaker 1: And we'll make a final
folder here Called JS for Javascript.
Now, Mac has a lot, displays these
folders in a lot of differennt ways.
The way this one is displayed may not
look like your particular folder.
This buttons on top will change that
configurations so we can change it to look
however you want In whatever way you want,
I'm gonna make mine look like this.
This is the second button over, the one
with the whole bunch of lines on it.
As it says here, show the items as icons,
and the list in columns, just like that,
that's what I'm looking for.
So, that is where we're going
to be putting our various files.
And I had some files that we can work
with to drag into these folders.
What we're gonna need to
do is download those, so
go on ahead and open up your web browser.
And where we would like to go
is bit.ly/internetfundamentals.
>> Speaker 1: All one word,
go on ahead and do that.
And you'll see that a file
will download here.
There's no web page that loads,
it just happens to be that.
We found this to be an easy
way to set this up so
as you have the files that you need for
the class.
Go on ahead and click on the little arrow
next to this and say show and find her,
and that will show you your downloads
folder and we can just simply drag this
zipped file right on off to your
desktop and close the downloads folder.
So from right here on the desktop you'll
see it says webtoolsandinfastructure.zip.
Go ahead and double click on it,
that will unzipp it.
And we'll have a folder here called
web tools and infastructure.
I'm gonna take the zip file and just put
it on the trash to clear my desktop.
Open up web tools and infrastructure.
Inside of here, the folder that we want
is the one called starting website,
go ahead and drag that to the desktop,
and then you can close the web tools and
infrastructure window.
So, I've got,
demo finish over here on the side and
next to that I'm going to put another
window which is my starting website.
So here you'll see I have
a bunch of files here.
My extensions are all turned on so you
can see that these are JavaScript files,
JPEGs, PNGs, HTMLs, CSS and so forth.
And so these need to be put into the
correct folders in the demo finish folder.
How do we know what goes where?
Well, I'll show you.
So what we're going to do is there
are specific file types that go in
each folder.
If the file ends in HTM or HTML,
then you're going to put that
into the main website folder.
If it ends in .css, those are css
files that go in the css folder.
If it ends in .js, those are JavaScript
files that go in the js folder.
For the images, there are only three kinds
of images that are supported on the web.
This is all the web, it's not a browser
thing, it's just the way things are.
Those three image types are JPGs,
GIFs, and PNG files.
That means images like TIFFs and BMPs or
EPS files, or Adobe Illustrator native
files, or Photoshop native files,
those are not supported by the web.
You cannot open them up on the web or
put them in a web browser.
So all of the images have to be JPG,
GIF or PNG.
So once you got that clear,
now we go back.
We’ll just go through our various files
here and drag them into our folders.
So if we start with css If you click the
little down arrow next to the css folder,
that'll show you what's inside of it.
Right now there's nothing, because of
course, we just created the folder.
But over here on the right side,
in our starting-website folder,
we can grab styles.css.
Go on ahead and grab that, click and drag
on over to the css folder, and let it go.
And we now have our
styles.CSS in our CSS folder.
Let's do our images next.
We have cherry almond.jpg,
that's an image file.
We're gonna click and
drag that on over to the image folder.
It's sort of disappeared there,
if you hit the down arrow,
you'll see that the image made it over.
Let's do the same thing for
clouds.png that's another image file.
And logo.png another image file.
Great.
So we've got all of those in place.
And then finally we have accordion.js,
that's gonna go over here
to the JavaScript folder.
Let me just go ahead and
click and drag that on over.
>> Speaker 1: So
what do we do with this index.html?
That goes inside of the main folder.
Not in css, images, or js,
we don't make a folder called HTML,
we're simply going to take
the index dot html and
drag it right here into
the main demo finish folder.
If you tighten up all those other folders,
you'll see here's index.html
at the same level as your css image and
JavaScript folders.
Finally, we have one file leftovers,
this is a thing called DS_Store,
this is a max specific file,
it occasionally shows up.
If these files have been going from a Mac,
they went through a PC and
maybe they came back to a Mac,
sometimes you'll see this file in place.
This is actually a Mac file that
is present on Macintoshes but
normally we don't see it
as Macintosh users and so
this actually has nothing
to do with the website.
You may see .DS_Store show up in a whole
bunch of places, just ignore it.
It's not anything that's critical or
anything that you're going to need
in order to get your work done, so
you can just go ahead and
close the starting website folder.
So you've essentially built your first
website, you have all your files,
all in their collect folders, I'm sure
you're wondering what it looks like,
I will show you that in the next video.